I've heard that waters wasted when
clothes are made but how only 3% of
water is fresh water and it seems we're
using so much of it on the wrong things
that we're preventing its use where its
most needed
I'm graves and I love fashioned I'm
finding out about sustainable fashion
and how I can be a more responsible
shopper I need to find out how much
water is used to make my clothes so I'm
going to the local pool to find Keith an
expert who works to improve resource
efficiency he should be able to tell me
more about water being wasted in
clothing production how much water's
being wasted in the fashion industry as
the amount of water that's used at the
fashion industry is huge so for the
clothes we buy in one year in the UK
we're talking around 5.5 billion cubic
meters of water and how much water is
wasted in a typical outfit pair of jeans
and a t-shirt then that'll be between 20
and 40 thousand litres of water anywhere
in the world those are made to put that
in context there's enough water in the
swimming pool to make back 40 pairs of
jeans
that's not many pairs of jeans is there
many pairs of jeans at all and this is
just one swimming pool so the water
demand around the world is phenomenal
why why are we wasting this much water
it's the demand from the fibers that
we're choosing companies one of the
thirstiest crops that we produce in this
planet and then the pollution that's
being caused the freshwater raft of us
meeting Keith was really helpful he
basically told me that jeans use a lot
of water which is worrying because I'm
pretty sure that everyone has the pair
of jeans in their wardrobe if not
multiple I'm starting to think that
maybe we should just stop wearing jeans
altogether I'm going to go and meet with
denim expert more soon to find out more
so there's lots of chemicals that are
used on jeans there's a lot of horrible
chemicals and actually indigo itself
this is like chemical indigo is made
with chemicals which are super super
poisonous you know these are like visa
chemicals that come from oil and you
know chemicals that you put in like rat
poison yeah because my worry is when I
wash my jeans and they've got chemicals
that then that's just going into the
water and then that's just causing not
many people where raw genes are genes
that are like dark colors so they most
the time we'll buy a pair that's already
been washed in it's already already
quite soft so there have been chemicals
put on that to make it much more softer
you know there's places in the forest
where the water table literally crazily
gone you know they can't even very food
now it's quite scary yeah
have you seen sustainable solutions yeah
there's loads of sustainable solutions
like organic Cotton's one of them but
there's lots of more advances now people
are coming up with other types of fibers
to mix with the cotton they're actually
slightly better solutions because you're
not using as much cotton so the future
really is not using cotton at all not
using any yes I believe so now obviously
Cotton's always gonna be there yeah yeah
but the thing is we know now all that
the amount of energy it uses off Mount
water uses up its nicely good and
because of fast fashion more and more
meals
opening up the more people growing
cotton this this is not good for the
environment so there's to be a stop
somewhere it's safe to say that I've
never seen so many pairs of jeans
walleston mentioned some alternatives so
I'm on my way to meet Tom he's creating
jeans in a certain away I want to see
what that means so I'm heading to
Belgium
[Music]
so we know that cotton is pretty bad for
the environment yeah what should jeans
be made out of instead of cotton or so
that was the main idea behind what we're
doing is why not make use of the cotton
sorry out there and reuse that cotton so
this is what the jeans looks like I
guess you put it in a shredder so
dissing the cotton again which feels
super soft yeah we then mixed these
fibers with new fibers because on your
cycle cotton fibers the fibers get a bit
shorter so you add new fibers to get the
required quality again and therefore out
of circle design principles we wanted to
mix it with renewable materials also
biological materials so we chose to use
tensile and it's made from wood pulp so
we have trees so this yarn is made in
Belgium at a 50% recycled both jeans and
50% pencil so that way we've taken arts
of the hazardous chemicals we managed to
create a new denim fabric which is also
a healthy fabric and then at the end of
the day when it's completely worn out or
doesn't fit anymore we want customers to
just stand back the jeans honest you
know that it's all recyclable so it
makes it easy a few three perhaps
arrange everything just put in the
recycling loop and make it back into the
fibers and then back into the yarn is
solo over again
our parodies uses six times liters of
water less compared to regular okay so
I've just come back from Belgium and I
absolutely loved how passionate tom was
about his jeans I honestly didn't even
know circular design was possible when
it came to fashion now what I really
want to do is talk to someone who owns
multiple pairs of jeans like my sister
how many pairs of denim jeans do Amenia
I own two jackets and five pairs of
jeans but I didn't know dinner was bad
it's so denim waste a lot of water yeah
a lot of water also when you wash your
jeans you're wasting a lot of water do
you wash them a lot as I yeah if they go
baggy and that's because they're bad
quality oh yeah I guess we just need to
wash odd clothes les yeah we need to buy
less denim
we need to maybe look at buying
alternatives but they are expensive yeah
and if we are gonna buy an item of denim
jeans you need to make sure that they
last longer hurt quality yeah good
quality and we love them
yeah I've learned a lot here me back
feel bad now all right but I think we
all need to learn about the history it's
really good to have the discussion
definitely